### Project Goal

The goal of the project is to provide an application useful for tracking expenses and investments. I have started tracking my expenses using Microsoft Excel since October 2019 and it has turned out to be a really good idea and has helped me find out how much I spend on average, each month as well as scaling down my expenses and save more money. I've started investing in 2022 and that is when I have started to experience the limitations of what I can achieve with Microsoft Excel, or any spreadsheet application really.

You can still track a great degree; however, I want more customization and aggregation of data. For instance, I want to know the lifetime details of a bond (when it is issued and when does it mature) as well as know the individual yields and attach documents as well. Having the signed document for the bond agreement easily accessible as well as being associated with the respective bond so I have all my information in one place and visualizing the state of the bond.

Another key aspect of investment tracking are taxes. This is not something you see often mentioned in investment videos or "tutorials", a lot of people brag about how much money they make, however they seldom mention if the amount is before or, more interesting, after taxes. It is basically the question of how much ends up in your pocket. Depending on the investment, sometimes even when you buy and when you sell, as well as depending on how much you make, there are different taxes that apply. For instance, banks advertise what a great interest they offer for your deposits, how many of them actually tell you what is the net interest? If you have 6% return on investment for a deposit, and you need to pay to the government 10% of that then your net return is not 6%, it is 90% of 6% which is 5.4% (6 * 90 / 100 = 6 * 0.9 = 5.4) of your deposit amount. Suddenly, a government bond of 6.5% becomes very attractive as you do not generally pay any income taxes on these.

Generally, taxes are applied using a percentage on your return and then, depending on how much you make, you may encounter additional fixed taxes on a yearly basis. All of this goes in the calculation of your return on investment and **net** return on investment. Taking this into consideration and running simulations on how much you would make if you would make an investment in one instrument or another is a key part of making an informed decision. For instance, you can invest more one year and realize that you pass a certain threshold and have an added fixed tax at the end of the year which reduces your net return compared to not investing, the better choice from this perspective is to not invest and rather accumulate more until the respective added tax will have at the very least no effect.

This should be easily configurable in the application in order to provide users with a means of making informed decisions. This is definitely not the only tool that can do this, nor will it be the last. This is a pet project for me where I want to be able to track my expenses and investments with ease, beyond what I can do with a spreadsheet application as well as challenge myself on a technical level.

### Technical Challenges (Constraints)

The technical challenge of this project is to implement it using only Azure Storage (Tables, Queues and Blobs) as a database. No SQL, maybe a cache database or a search database if it really comes to that. The main reason for this is cost of hosting. Azure Storage is one of the cheapest storage services you can get on the platform. The other reason is that I really want to see if I can build an application using this storage service and how it all works together. I've been interested in it for a long time, I've previously used it on another application that is much simpler and always wondered why this is always presented as a trio. Why do you have tables, queues and blobs always put together? For blobs it would be obvious, it's where you store files, but tables with queues? It turns out that there are a lot of eventual consistency patterns with Azure Table Storage where queues just fit like a glove to move the process to a background worker as well as having specialized triggers for queue storage.

A secondary challenge is to use NodeJS and TypeScript exclusively. I am a fullstack developer, I started as a .NET developer and still work with .NET. Later I've started working on front-end with React and both JavaScript and TypeScript. The constraint to use only TypeScript is because of its type safety and all the benefits that come with it. Developing an application with NodeJS instead of .NET will expose me to a different technology stack where I get to implement it, more or less, using the same patterns but in a different programming language.

The third challenge is to have this application as a classic multi-page web application. Everything is done on the back-end and the user gets an HTML page, or a redirect response in some cases, for everything they do. All pages that take input from the user submit a form to the application, just like back in the day. The reason for this is to step outside of what I usually do. I mainly work with Single-Page Applications and doing this will challenge me to handle similar scenarios in a different way. Having to deal with everything that a classic multi-page application will be a good exercise as well as finding good solutions to each issue that I encounter.

As an added challenge to the one above, I want to have minimal, none if possible, JavaScript on the front-end. Obviously, the related JavaScript used by Bootstrap will still be included. What I mean is that JavaScript specific the application should be at an absolute minimum, non-existent unless there is absolutely no other way. This should move the entire application code that runs on the back-end and when there is something like an interaction on a page, this would mean a back and forth between the browser and the server.

### What if this becomes popular?

Obviously, the application name and logo are a clear reference to Petyr "Littlefinger" Baelish from HBO's "Game of Thrones" based on the "A Song of Ice and Fire" book series written by Gorge R. R. Martin. If this application becomes popular it may attract their attention and may require me to either pay them an amount for using their intellectual property to promote an application or just ask me to rename it altogether. Imagine how successful this application should be for any of that to happen, I honestly don't think it's going to become that big. I believe there are plenty of other applications that do this better and are much better marketed.

In the event that this application does become so popular that I'm going to be asked to rename it or pay a fee to be able to use the name and logo going forward I'd probably just rename it. This is also why I will not buy a custom domain having the "Littlefinger" name in it as that will increase cost as well as having to buy an SSL certificate for HTTPS. I already get all that with the Microsoft Azure Web App. If I will buy a custom domain for it then I will change the name of the application, however, I will keep this personification of the application present as if when you are going through the application there is a character talking, judging or encouraging you based on what you are doing. Nothing AI fancy, just some standard messages, it's a free app after all.